EJAM Environmental Justice Analysis Multisite tool
================

# <img src="man/figures/logo659.png" align="right" width="220px"/>

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit Rmd not md  -->
<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- or we could comment out the badge 
&#10;[![Lifecycle: experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-experimental-orange.svg)](https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/stages.html#experimental)
 -->
<!-- badges: end -->

EJScreen’s Environmental Justice Analysis Multisite Tool (EJAM) is a
resource provided by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(US EPA). It lets you easily and quickly see demographic and
environmental information aggregated within and across hundreds or
thousands of places, all at the same time.

### What Can You Do with EJAM?

- [What is EJAM?](https://usepa.github.io/EJAM/articles/0_whatis.html)

### EJAM as a Web Application

[EJAM can be used as a web app](https://usepa.github.io/EJAM/articles/0_webapp.html), providing a
simple user interface that lets anyone quickly see the results of a
basic analysis.

### EJAM as a Software Toolkit (and Local Web App) for Analysts and Developers

EJAM is also available to analysts and developers as an R Package
written in the [R programming language](https://www.r-project.org/),
with source code on GitHub. When used in RStudio, the EJAM package
provides functions to help analysts work with block group data, points,
and polygons, to very quickly aggregate and compare large numbers of
locations.

Again, installing the R package also allows one to use [EJAM as a local
web app](https://usepa.github.io/EJAM/articles/0_webapp.html) if the shiny app is launched locally on
a user’s own computer.

More information about the EJAM R package:

- [Installing the R
  package](https://usepa.github.io/EJAM/articles/1_installing.html)

- [Quick Start
  Guide](https://usepa.github.io/EJAM/articles/2_quickstart.html)

- [Basics of Using EJAM for Analysis in
  RStudio](https://usepa.github.io/EJAM/articles/3_analyzing.html)

- [Advanced
  Features](https://usepa.github.io/EJAM/articles/4_advanced.html)

- [Reference Manual - EJAM R Functions and
  Data](https://usepa.github.io/EJAM/articles/index.html)

- [GitHub Repository - Open Source Code and
  Data](https://usepa.github.io/EJAM/articles/1_installing.html)

#### Open-Source Code Policy

Effective August 8, 2016, the <a
href="https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/sites/default/files/omb/memoranda/2016/m_16_21.pdf"
class="uri" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">OMB Mandate:
M-16-21; Federal Source Code Policy: Achieving Efficiency, Transparency,
and Innovation through Reusable and Open Source Software</a> applies to
new custom-developed code created or procured by EPA consistent with the
scope and applicability requirements of Office of Management and
Budget’s (OMB’s) Federal Source Code Policy. In general, it states that
all new custom-developed code by Federal Agencies should be made
available and reusable as open-source code.

The EPA specific implementation of OMB Mandate M-16-21 is addressed in
the <a
href="https://www.epa.gov/irmpoli8/policy-procedures-and-guidance-system-life-cycle-management-slcm"
class="uri" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">System Life Cycle
Management Procedure</a>. EPA has chosen to use GitHub as its version
control system as well as its inventory of open-source code projects.
EPA uses GitHub to inventory its custom-developed, open-source code and
generate the necessary metadata file that is then posted to code.gov for
broad reuse in compliance with OMB Mandate M-16-21.

If you have any questions or want to read more, check out the
<a href="https://github.com/USEPA/open-source-projects" class="uri"
target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">EPA Open Source Project
Repo</a> and <a
href="https://www.epa.gov/developers/open-source-software-and-epa-code-repository-requirements"
class="uri" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">EPA’s Interim Open
Source Code Guidance</a>.

#### Contributing

We encourage analysts and developers to test the EJAM R package and the
EJAM shiny app, and provide feedback, or to share code, and we welcome
your suggestions or contributions.

- [How to Contribute](https://usepa.github.io/EJAM/CONTRIBUTING.html)

#### License

By submitting a pull request or issue, you are agreeing to comply with a
waiver of copyright interest.

#### Disclaimer for App

This software/application has been approved for release by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA). Although the software has been
subjected to rigorous review, the USEPA reserves the right to update the
software as needed pursuant to further analysis and review. No warranty,
expressed or implied, is made by the USEPA or the U.S. Government as to
the functionality of the software and related material nor shall the
fact of release constitute any such warranty. Furthermore, the software
is released on condition that neither the USEPA nor the U.S. Government
shall be held liable for any damages resulting from its authorized or
unauthorized use.

#### Disclaimer for GitHub Repository Content

The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) GitHub project
code is provided on an “as is” basis and the user assumes responsibility
for its use. EPA has relinquished control of the information and no
longer has responsibility to protect the integrity, confidentiality, or
availability of the information. Any reference to specific commercial
products, processes, or services by service mark, trademark,
manufacturer, or otherwise, does not constitute or imply their
endorsement, recommendation or favoring by EPA.

**The EPA seal and logo shall not be used in any manner to imply
endorsement of any commercial product or activity by EPA or the United
States Government.**

### Contact

If you have questions or comments, please email
[ENVIROMAIL_GROUP@epa.gov](mailto:ENVIROMAIL_GROUP@epa.gov?subject=EJAM%20package%20question)
and put “EJAM package question” in the subject line.
